# Learned from Bloc meeting: April 8th, 2015

Honestly today I didn't really learn a ton. We sort of worked together on the wiki policy, my tests along with the implementation. I asked a few questions along the way but there was nothing really earthshattering. Michael reminded me (since I'd seen it already in the checkpoint) about how the pundit gem works, but that's stuff that I could have gotten nearly as easily from the documentation.

Which brings me to my real point here--I was pretty chill coming in thinking that we would just pair on what I was most recently working on. I now think that this is actually not acceptable. This is not going to fully maximize what you can get out of this course. I think the value added provided by Michael today was very small and it was not because of any particular deficiency from him. I think it had much more to do with my not having asked the best questions. I mean honestly if you knew that you had a voucher worth $50 that got you one half hour with an experienced programmer, how would you spend it? Would you just work on what you were doing most recently? I think you would not. You would carefully select something that you were having a lot of trouble with or that you wanted to go over together, or a new area that was difficult for you and see how an expert would look at it. Much of what you would do is send code to someone more experienced and have them look at it.

You need to create a similar process if you really want to get the most out of this course. Otherwise you're going to be doing a lot of spinning your wheels and wasting your time. Throughout the week take notes on what could be particularly difficult things that you'd like to work through with Michael. If you can't find things that are sufficiently difficult that merit going over with him then...I'm not sure. That's the problem with going through the projects in the way that are--problems could come up but you need to spend enough time every day going through things that such problems do come up.

I think one way to think about this that might be easier than trying to find problems that don't seem to be presenting themselves is look for oppportunities to work on new and novel things. You don't need to just go over the things in the checkpoints. In fact. You probably shouldn't spend your pairing time going over things in the checkpoints. Remember now that the projects have checkpoints you've got ready made tutorials and a lot more hand-holding for this part of the course. It would be a waste to spend your time with Michael on things that you could just as easily read in a tutorial. Instead, think about how you could extend what's in the tutorial. These could perhaps be extra things that you'd like to implement but won't otherwise have time to because you're trying to move through the tutorials as fast as you can to get done with the projects on time.

Ideally take note of these things as you go so that the day before your meeting you can send Michael something some code, an explanation a repo, where you talk about what you'd like to work on together. These meetings are supposed to be with agendas for a reason. You should have multiple ideas throughout the week so that when the day before comes you can pick one of those and talk to him about that. Up until the meeting you continue to work through the checkpoints as normal. You don't have to be working on the thing you want to pair on right up until the meeting.

You also want to do this so that you can think through your questions better. You don't want to be like you were in this session where you're kind of babbling out your question in a semi-articulate way and not making any sense. That's not the way to do it.

So in review. Every week, before your meeting (which I think he's right could just be one) you want to

- Have a list of ideas for challenging features/refactorings/tests, etc. that you could pair on
- Narrow that list down to one
- Communicate the paramters--what is it you'd like to accomplish, what doubts or questions do you have.
- Send this to him at least the day before if not earlier.



